# The use of ChatGPT in School  
In this docment, I will discuss two articles about the reaction of school to ChatGPT. I present two oppoing views on this important matter.  

## Article 1 
Matt O'Brein's [Explainer: What is ChapGPT and why are school blocking it](https://apnews.com/article/what-is-chat-gpt-ac4967a4fb41fda31c4d27f015e32660) presents the controversy faced by AI today. ChatPGT is an AI system by launched by OpenAI, which generates text and images on demand based on what they have learned from huge databases of digital books and writings. It is so powerful that it can pass the MBA exam of the Wharton Business School. There has been speculation that ChatGPT will upend the current search business dominated by Google.

Some educators worried that students may overly rely on ChatGPT while doing their assignments, which can harm their critical-thinking and problem-solving skills. Worrying about its negative impacts, The New York City Education Department is restricting the access of ChatGPT on school devices and networks. Even the company made a claim that they will develop technology that help identify contents generated by the system. It is interesting that when the report asked ChatGPT how to tell if the texts are written by AI, it tells him to look for repetitive phrase and absence of personal emotion.  

## Article 2 
Contrary to the claims made by O'Brien, Kevin Roose's articles, [Don't Ban ChatGPT in schools. Teach with it](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/12/technology/chatgpt-schools-teachers.html), lists reasons that ChatGPT should not be banned in schools. First, banning ChatGPT is not going to work becasue students can always access it via their personal cell phones and laptops. Second, ChatGPT can create a more efficient classroom by assisting teachers in preparing for class activities and exams. Teachers can also enhance critical thinking of students by encouraging them to challenge the answers generated by it. Third, today's students will live in a world full of AI. Thus, it is useful for them to learn about the strength and weakness of AI, and they can thus better use it in the future.  

Personally, I agree with Roose's idea. Schools should not simply ban the use of ChatGPT. Instead, they should inform students the limitation of AI by allowing them to work with it. There is still a discrepancy between AI and human brain, and the abuse of it can cause problems. For example, ChatPGT is trained based on existing data and writings. Thus if there are bias in the past data, the whole ChatPGT will also be biased. Heavy reliance on such a system can lead to discrimination against minority. As big data and AI technology continue to grow, young generations should be aware of problems like this and armed with the ability to distinguish between right and wrong. 